Let's compute our features.
So the first couple are made fairly simple because we can take
advantage of these numpy functions like mean and standard deviation.
There's also a numpy function for a percentile,
and we can do that like this.
How do we compute the Pearson correlation coefficient between the x and y channels?
You may have noticed that there's this import up here for the scipy.stats package,
and you might be wondering if we could use that to compute
the Pearson correlation coefficient, and you'd be right.
You could use the scipy.stats.pearsonr
function to compute the correlation coefficient between the x and y channels.
The next feature is the total AC energy in the x-axis,
and this one I computed for you.
The way we do that is by taking the sum of the squared values of
the signal after we center it by removing the mean of that channel.
This is the same thing as just taking
the variance of the channel multiplied by its length.
Now here energy doesn't really mean a whole lot
in terms of the physical concept of energy,
it's more of a signal processing concept.
Let's move on to frequency domain features.
We started out by taking a zero padded F FT so that we
can get more resolution in the frequency domain.
To compute the dominant frequency in the x channel, first,
we need to select the frequency values in our window between 0.25 and 12 hertz.
Then we take the magnitude of our Fourier transform for values inside this window.
Now we look at which index has the most power in this window and what frequency it's at,
and this is our dominant frequency in the x channel.
The last feature I also implemented for you,
which is the fraction of energy between
the two and three hertz spins in the accelerometer x channel.
So spectral energy can be computed like this,
which is just the square of the magnitude of the Fourier transform.
The energy inside bin between two and three hertz can be computed like this,
and we take the sum of that.
Then the fraction of energy in this bin is just the sum of
the energy between two and three hertz divided by the sum of the total energy.
So now we've implemented a partial list of our features,
but there's actually a whole lot more than this because we have to do
all of this for each of our accelerometer channels.
I've spared you that effort and put all the features
in the activity_classifier_utils.py module.
So here we have the code that implements the future iteration of our accelerometer.
We start with the mean of each of the channels and the standard deviation,
and then we do the percentile values for each channel,
followed by the Pearson correlation coefficient of
each pair and the total energy in each channel.
Next for you are frequency domain features and we'll
include the accelerometer magnitude here as well.
So we compute the accelerometer magnitude by
taking the square root of the sum of the squares of each of the channels.
We do our Fourier transform and then compute the dominant frequency for each channel,
as well as the magnitude,
and the fraction of energy in each of the frequency bins for all these channels.
So this ends up being quite a few features.
Now let's extract these features on our data set.